
T. A Call to Action to Develop Integrated Curricula in Cardiorenal Medicine.
A. With the adoption of the new definition and classification of cardiorenal syndrome (CRS) and its relevant subtypes, much attention has been placed on elucidating the mechanisms of heart and kidney interactions. Of great interest are the pathophysiological pathways by which acute heart failure may result in acute kidney injury (AKI; type 1), chronic heart failure accelerating the progression of chronic kidney disease (CKD; type 2), AKI provoking cardiac events (type 3), and CKD increasing the risk and severity of cardiovascular disease (type 4). A remarkable interest has also been placed on the acute and chronic systemic conditions, such as sepsis and diabetes, which simultaneously affect heart and kidney function (type 5). Furthermore, the physiology of acute and chronic heart-kidney cross talk is drawing attention to hemodynamics (fluids, pressures, flows, resistances, perfusion), physiochemical (electrolytes, pH, and toxins), and biological (inflammation, immune system activation, neurohormonal signals) processes. Common clinical scenarios call for recognition, knowledge, and skill in managing CRS. There is a clear need for medical and surgical specialists that are well versed in the pathophysiology and the clinical manifestations that arise in the setting of CRS. With this editorial, we are making a call to action to stimulate universities, medical schools, and teaching hospitals to create a core curriculum for cardiorenal medicine to better equip the physicians of the future for these common, serious, and frequently fatal syndromes.
T. Cleavage of Ku80 by caspase-2 promotes non-homologous end joining-mediated DNA repair.
A. Non-homologous end-joining (NHEJ)-mediated repair of DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) requires the formation of a Ku70/Ku80/DNA-PKcs complex at the DSB sites. A previous study has revealed Ku80 cleavage by caspase-3 during apoptosis. However, it remains largely unknown whether and how Ku80 cleavage affects its function in mediating NHEJ-mediated DNA repair. Here we report that Ku80 can be cleaved by caspases-2 at D726 upon a transient etoposide treatment. Caspase-2-mediated Ku80 cleavage promotes Ku80/DNA-PKcs interaction as the D726A mutation diminished Ku80 interaction with DNA-PKcs, while a Ku80 truncate (Ku80 ΔC6) lacking all the 6 residues following D726 rescued the weakened Ku80/DNA-PKcs interaction caused by caspase-2 knockdown. As a result, depletion or inhibition of caspase-2 impairs NHEJ-mediated DNA repair, and such impairment can be reversed by Ku80 ΔC6 overexpression. Taken together, our current study provides a novel mechanism for regulating NHEJ-mediated DNA repair, and sheds light on the function of caspase-2 in genomic stability maintenance.
T. The fecal microbiome of ALS patients.
A. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative motor neuron disease accompanied by both systemic and central nervous system-specific inflammation as well as deregulated energy metabolism. These potential pathogenetic factors have recently been found to mutually interact with the gut microbiota, raising the hypothesis of a link between microbiome alterations and ALS pathogenesis. The aim of our study was to assess whether ALS is associated with an altered composition of the fecal microbiota. We compared the fecal microbiota of 25 ALS patients with 32 age- and gender-matched healthy persons using 16S rRNA gene sequencing analysis. Confounding factors and secondary disease effects on the microbiome were minimized by selection of patients without dysphagia, gastrostomy, noninvasive ventilation, or reduced body mass index. Comparing the 2 carefully matched groups, the diversity and the abundance of the bacterial taxa on the different taxonomic levels as well as PICRUSt-predicted metagenomes were almost indistinguishable. Significant differences between ALS patients and healthy controls were only observed with regard to the overall number of microbial species (operational taxonomic units) and in the abundance of uncultured Ruminococcaceae. Conclusively, ALS patients do not exhibit a substantial alteration of the gut microbiota composition.
T. Differences in the association of inflammation and tryptophan with depressive symptoms between white and non-white chronic dialysis patients.
A. Possibly, different biochemical parameters are involved in the development of depressive symptoms in white and non-white dialysis patients. We examined whether the association between inflammation and depressive symptoms and between tryptophan and depressive symptoms differs between white and non-white dialysis patients and whether the association between inflammation and depressive symptoms is mediated by tryptophan degradation along the kynurenine pathway in both groups.Depressive symptoms were measured with the BDI-II. HsCRP, IL-1β, IL-6, IL-10, and TNFα and tryptophan and its degradation products kynurenine and 3-hydroxykynurenine were measured in 270 white and 220 non-white patients.The presence of depressive symptoms was significantly higher in non-white patients (51%) than in white patients (37%) (P&lt;0.01). Among white patients, HsCRP was significantly associated with depressive symptoms (β=0.6 (95% CI: 0.1-1.2)). Among non-white patients, significant associations with depressive symptoms were found for both HsCRP (β=1.0 (95% CI: 0.1-2.0)) and IL-6 (β=2.6 (95% CI: 0.8-4.4)). Tryptophan levels were only significantly associated with depressive symptoms in non-white patients (β=-0.3 (95% CI: -0.4--0.1)). Tryptophan degradation along the kynurenine pathway did not mediate the association between inflammatory markers and depressive symptoms in either group.Our results indicate that for white and non-white dialysis patients different biochemical parameters are associated with depressive symptoms.
T. Digital quantitative analysis of mast cell infiltration in interstitial cystitis.
A. To evaluate the significance of mast cell infiltration in interstitial cystitis (IC) by comparison with equally inflamed controls using a digital quantification technique.Bladder biopsy specimens from 31 patients with Hunner type IC and 38 patients with non-Hunner type IC were analyzed. Bladder biopsy specimens from 37 patients without IC, including 19 non-specific chronic cystitis ("non-IC cystitis") specimens and 18 non-inflamed bladder ("normal bladder") specimens, were used as controls. Mast cell tryptase-, CD3-, CD20-, and CD138-immunoreactive cells were quantified using digital image analysis software to evaluate both mast cell and lymphoplasmacytic cell densities. Mast cell and lymphoplasmacytic cell densities were counted independently in the entire lamina propria and detrusor areas and compared among the four groups.In the lamina propria, there were no significant differences in mast cell and lymphoplasmacytic cell densities between Hunner type IC and non-IC cystitis or between non-Hunner type IC and normal bladder specimens. In the detrusor, the mast cell densities were not significantly different among the four groups. Mast cell density was correlated with lymphoplasmacytic cell density, but not with clinical parameters.Mast cell density is not significantly different between IC specimens and non-IC control specimens with a similar degree of background inflammation. The intensity of mast cell infiltration generally correlated with that of lymphoplasmacytic cells. We conclude that mast cell count is of no value in the differential diagnosis between IC and other etiologies.
T. Cryopreserved rabbit amniotic membrane alleviated inflammatory response and fibrosis following experimental strabismus surgery in rabbits.
A. We evaluate the ability of cryopreserved rabbit amniotic membrane (AM) transplantation to reduce postoperative inflammation and the extent of fibrosis following experimental strabismus surgery. Ten white rabbits underwent bilateral superior rectus (SR) muscle resection. In the left eye, the resected SR muscle was wrapped with cryopreserved rabbit AM. The right eye underwent SR resection only and served as a control. The eyes were enucleated 4 weeks after strabismus surgery. The degree of postoperative inflammatory infiltration, the extent of fibrosis, and profile of the relative expression of inflammatory mediators in the SR muscle were evaluated and compared between the two groups by histological analysis and real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR). There were statistically meaningful differences in the degree of postoperative inflammatory infiltration and extent of fibrosis between the eyes treated with cryopreserved rabbit AM after SR resection and those underwent SR resection only. A significant decrease in the expression of inflammatory cytokines [interleukin (IL)-12a, IL-12b, IL-17f, and tumor necrosis factor- alpha (TNF-α)], and a markedly increased expression of anti-inflammatory cytokines (transforming growth factor-beta-1(TGFβ-1) and IL-10) were observed in the eyes treated with cryopreserved rabbit AM. In this study, we demonstrate that cryopreserved rabbit AM is effective in reducing postoperative inflammation and extent of fibrosis in a rabbit model of strabismus surgery. Our results imply that cryopreserved AM allograft has anti-inflammatory and anti-scarring properties that can prevent postoperative adhesions following strabismus surgery.
T. CLEC9A modulates macrophage-mediated neutrophil recruitment in response to heat-killed Mycobacterium tuberculosis H37Ra.
A. Tuberculosis is a fatal human infectious disease caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis (M. tuberculosis) that is prevalent worldwide. Mycobacteria differ from other bacteria in that they have a cell wall composed of specific surface glycans that are the major determinant of these organisms' pathogenicity. The interaction of M. tuberculosis with pattern recognition receptors (PRRs), in particular C-type lectin receptors (CLRs), on the surface of macrophages plays a central role in initiating innate and adaptive immunity, but the picture as a whole remains a puzzle. Defining novel mechanisms by which host receptors interact with pathogens in order to modulate a specific immune response is an area of intense research. In this study, based on an in vitro lectin binding assay, CLEC9A (DNGR-1) is identified as a novel CLR that binds with mycobacteria. Our results with CLEC9A-knocked down cells and a CLEC9A-Fc fusion protein as blocking agents show that CLEC9A is involved in the activation of SYK and MAPK signaling in response to heat-killed M. tuberculosis H37Ra treatment, and it then promotes the production of CXCL8 and IL-1β in macrophages. The CXCL8 and IL-1β secreted by the activated macrophages are critical to neutrophil recruitment and activation. In a in vivo mouse model, when the interaction between CLEC9A and H37Ra is interfered with by treatment with CLEC9A-Fc fusion protein, this reduces lung inflammation and cell infiltration. These findings demonstrate that CLEC9A is a specialized receptor that modulates the innate immune response when there is a mycobacterial infection.
T. Severe Burn-Induced Inflammation and Remodeling of Achilles Tendon in a Rat Model.
A. Severe burn causes systemic inflammation and hypercatabolism, resulting in damage to multiple organs distant to the burn site, including the musculoskeletal system. Bone mass and muscle loss have been reported. However, tendon that connects bone and muscle has not been studied in comparable detail. Here we aimed to characterize the molecular and functional changes in Achilles tendon triggered by severe burn. Forty male Sprague-Dawley rats received 40% total body surface area scald burn. Achilles tendons were collected up to 14 days post burn. Sham-treated animals served as a control group. We analyzed tendons for changes in expression of IL-6, IL-1β, TNF, MMP9, MMP13, TGFβ1, Collagens I and III, and for morphological and biomechanical changes. Gene expression of IL-6 and IL-1β as well as MMP9 and MMP13 increased in rat tendon 3 days after burn. Col3a1 increased at day 3 and col1a1 at day 7. At day 14, TGFβ1 increased while the protein ratio for collagens I/III decreased, indicating tendon remodeling. Histological analysis with H&amp;E and Picrosirius red staining further revealed a decrease in organized collagen fibers 14 days after burn. Biomechanical analysis showed a decrease in stiffness and ultimate force of tendons in burn rats.We conclude that tendinopathy was observed in Achilles tendon 14 days after severe burn, via the induction of inflammation and remodeling. The current study provides a model of tendinopathy that may be used for the development of therapeutic approaches following burn.This is an open-access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution-Non Commercial-No Derivatives License 4.0 (CCBY-NC-ND), where it is permissible to download and share the work provided it is properly cited. The work cannot be changed in any way or used commercially without permission from the journal. http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0.
T. CLINICAL COURSE OF INFLAMMATORY CHOROIDAL NEOVASCULARIZATION ASSOCIATED WITH FOCAL CHOROIDAL EXCAVATION.
A. To report the clinical course of focal choroidal excavation associated with choroidal neovascularization in a case of choroidal inflammation.Case report.A 41-year-old man presented with blurred vision and metamorphopsia in his left eye. Multimodal imaging including optical coherence tomography angiography showed nonconforming focal choroidal excavation in the setting of choroidal inflammation and the presence of choroidal neovascularization at the border of the excavation, nicely visualized by optical coherence tomography angiography. Pattern alteration from nonconforming to conforming focal choroidal excavation and choroidal neovascularization involution were observed after treatment with oral steroids.Multimodal imaging, including optical coherence tomography angiography, allowed to detect and monitor pattern focal choroidal excavation transformation and choroidal neovascularization reduction after treatment with oral steroids.
T. Age-related decline of the acute local inflammation response: a mitigating role for the adenosine A2A receptor.
A. Aging is accompanied by an increase in markers of innate immunity. How aging affects neutrophil functions remains of debate.The adenosine A2A receptor (A2AR), essential to the resolution of inflammation, modulates neutrophil functions. We sought to determine whether or not A2AR protects against the effects of aging. We monitored neutrophil influx, viability, and activation as well as cytokine accumulation in wild-type (WT) and A2AR-knockout mice (KO) at three different ages.Several readouts decreased with aging: neutrophil counts in dorsal air pouches (by up to 55%), neutrophil viability (by up to 56%), elastase and total protein in exudates (by up to 80%), and local levels of cytokines (by up to 90%). Each of these parameters was significantly more affected in A2AR-KO mice. CXCL1-3 levels were largely unaffected. The effects of aging were not observed systemically. Preventing neutrophil influx into the air pouch caused a comparable cytokine pattern in young WT mice. Gene expression (mRNA) in leukocytes was affected, with CXCL1 and CCL4 increasing and with TNF and IL-1α decreasing.ConclusionAging has deleterious effects on the acute inflammatory response and neutrophil-related activities, and defective migration appears as an important factor. A functional A2AR signaling pathway delays some of these.
T. [Dental perspective on Crohn's disease: literature review].
A. Crohn's disease (CD) is a chronic, idiophatic inflammatory process of the gastrointestinal tract and its cause remains unknown. It can affect any part of the digestive system, but preferentially involves the terminal part of the small intestine and the beginning of the large intestine. The disease course is usually long-term with episodes of remission and relapses. The clinical presentation of the disease varies and depends on the site of inflammation. Oral lesions can occur in 80% of pediatric and 90% of adult patients with CD. The most frequent are swelling of the oral mucosa with surface cobblestoning, ulcerations, candidiasis, angular cheilitis. The difficulty in diagnosis, resulting from the non-specific clinical manifestation, hamper proper diagnosis and delay the start of treatment. This paper presents etiology, epidemiology, clinical features and basic therapeutic capabilities for CD in the light of the literature. Oral manifestation of this disease was particularly emphasized.
T. [Modern perspective on the development conditions and diagnosis of systemic sclerosis].
A. Systemic sclerosis (SSc) is a multisystem disorder of the connective tissue characterized by a great deal of heterogeneity. This variability is a result of a combination of vascular damage inflammation and fibrosis leading to internal organ complications. The pathogenesis of disorder is still unknown. A large part is given to genetic, epigenetic and environmental factors. There is ongoing research into the new cells and mediators involved in the complicated development of disease. The overlap of vascular, autoimmune/ inflammatory alternations and fibrosis causes the multidirectional and unpredictable course of disease. Vascular complications may dominate in one group, whereas fibrosis in others. In addition, the disorder is characterized by individual variability; therefore although certain prognostic markers do exist, the course of disorder in largely unpredictable. This complexity of SSc, makes it difficult in terms of diagnosis and activity assessment, especially in early stages. Over a number of years, further classification criteria, which were more sensitive and more specific, were developed. The 2013 European League Against Rheumatism/American College of Rheumatology - EULAR/ACR classification criteria for SSc, were revised to include diagnosis in early stages and particularly in limited SSc. Unfortunately, there still exist certain groups of population which do not fulfil these criteria but develop the disorder; therefore, the search for new diagnostic methods which could elevate SSc diagnosis continues.
T. [Parathormone and vitamin d in heart failure - theoretical influence on disease development and potential therapy targets].
A. Vitamin D and parathormone (PTH) are hormones regulating calcium and phosphorus homeostasis. The aim of the article is to summarize the current knowledge in the field and to assess its impact on heart failure (HF) pathogenesis. PTH serum concentration being frequently elevated in patients with HF has negative impact on circulatory system stimulating myocardial fibrosis, wall thickening and reninangiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) activity. PTH reacts with smooth muscle cells receptors mediating adrenergic and chronotropic activation resulting in increased oxidative stress, endothelial dysfunction, intracellular calcium overload and has negative influence on prognosis in chronic HF patients. Vitamin D, which deficiency is common in developed countries, has widely distributed receptors including myocardium, endothelium and smooth muscle cells. Being an antiproliferative agent vitamin D modulates RAAS, regulates natriuretic peptides and myosine expression, suppresses inflammatory cytokines activity, has antiarrhytmic properties and increases myocardial contractility. It decreases arterial pressure, inhibits atherosclerosis progression and plays a protective role against inflammation including viral infections of cardiotropic potential. Optimal vitamin D serum concentration has potential protective impact on cardiovascular system.
T. Anti-inflammatory and endothelium protective effect of long-term pioglitazone intake in patients suffering from bronchial asthma concurrent with ischemic heart disease.
A. Treatment of co-morbidities, including bronchial asthma (BA) and coronary heart disease (CHD), is a relevant issue of modern therapy. The aim of the research is to study the impact of long-term intake of pioglitazone on the development of inflammation and ED in patients with BA concurrent with CHD.The clinical study involved 50 people aged 40-75 who suffered from asthma concurrent with CHD. On the first day of the study, blood samples were collected and clinical examinations were performed, after which patients were randomized and divided into the control group who continued to receive only the standard therapy, and the study group, who received pioglitazone (Pioglar, Ranbaxy, India) 15 mg once a day along with comprehensive therapy. Re-examination was carried out in 6 months.It has been found that inclusion of pioglitazone in the course of standard therapy in patients with asthma concurrent with coronary heart within 6 months is a more efficient scheme than the course of standard therapies. According to the data obtained from the patients, there was a significant decrease in respiratory rate (p&lt;0.01), levels of systolic blood pressure (p&lt;0.001) and diastolic blood pressure (p&lt;0.001). Administering pioglitazone contributed to the improvement of respiratory function and airflow obstruction, increased FEV1 performance (p&lt;0.01) and Tiffeneau index (p&lt;0.05). In patients of the study group, intake of pioglitazone helped to reduce angina. Intake of pioglitazone showed a significant decrease in the frequency of angina pectoris FC II (p&lt;0.05) and a significant increase in the frequency of angina FC I (p&lt;0.05), increase in the rate of threshold load power (p&lt;0.05). In assessing endothelium-dependent vasodilation of the brachial artery, it has been noted that intake of pioglitazone by patients with asthma concurrent with coronary heart disease resulted in a statistically significant increase in the diameter of the brachial artery by an average of 4% (p&lt;0.0001), the maximum blood flow velocity (TAMX) by an average of 40 % (p&lt;0.0001), Δ% diameter increase in the brachial artery (p&lt;0.0001), and achieved positive indicators of RI (p&lt;0.0001). In assessing endothelium-dependent vasodilation of brachial artery in patients treated with pioglitazone, there was a significant increase in the diameter of brachial artery on average by 5% (p&lt;0.0001) after taking nitroglycerin, an increase in ?% diameter of brachial artery (p&lt;0.0001) and RI (p&lt;0.0001). Inclusion of pioglitazone in the complex therapy for 6 months resulted in a significant decrease in the index of systemic inflammation hs-CRP (p&lt;0.0001) and adhesion marker sVCAM-1 (p&lt;0.0001), total cholesterol (p&lt;0.001), triglycerides (p&lt;0.001).Thus, these data demonstrate the anti-inflammatory and endothelium protective effects of pioglitazone against the background of standard therapy in patients with BA concurrent with CHD within 6 months, which may enhance the clinical efficacy in the treatment of these diseases.
T. The Micronome of Mesenchymal Stromal Cells is partially responsive to Inflammation.
A. Mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) display a special immunological profile that allows their potential use as immunotherapeutic cells. Nowadays, Foreskin (FSK) represents a valuable reservoir of MSCs with International Society for cellular Therapy (ISCT) compliant criteria and relevant functional properties. However, their mode of action is poorly understood and needs to be more elucidated to optimize their therapeutic use. Because microRNAs (miRNAs) act as key regulators in a wide variety of biological processes, we decided to establish the micronome of FSK-MSCs, the influence of inflammation and the predicted target pathways. Here, we provide the full list of unchanged and additional four differentially expressed miRNAs, miR-199b, -296-3p and -589-5p being downregulated whilst miR-146-3p being upregulated, in MSCs following their exposure to a cocktail of proinflammatory cytokines. MicroRNA target prediction in addition to Pathway enrichment analysis performed using miRNet, showed that miR-296-3p is linked to antigen processing and presentation pathway. Collectively, our data indicates that the micronome of FSK-MSCs is partially responsive to inflammation. Differentially expressed miRNAs are subsequently modulated by inflammation and seems to be involved in regulating the immunological fate of FSK-MSCs. These miRNAs deserve more attention in order to optimize MSC-based therapy and achieve the appropriate therapeutic effect.
T. Changes of Metabolic Disorders Associated Peripheral Cytokine/Adipokine Traffic in Non-Obese Chronic Back Patients Responsive to Burst Spinal Cord Stimulation.
A. In our previous study, anti-inflammatory IL-10 serum levels were significantly elevated after burst spinal cord stimulation (SCS) in back pain patients and correlated with pain intensity. This current study extended cytokine analysis including metabolic-associated adipokine/cytokine serum assessment in chronic back pain patients with co-existing metabolic disorders such as diabetes, hypertension, and cardiovascular diseases.At baseline and after three months of burst SCS treatment, leptin (LP), adiponectin (AN), and ghrelin (GH) were recorded in non-/pre-obese chronic back pain patients with co-existing metabolic disorders and compared to age-/gender-matched healthy controls (HC).Mean BMI was 22 ± 0.81 kg/m(2) in 12 (five male/seven female) participants with diabetes in 6/12 (50%), hypertension in 9 (75%), and CVD in five patients (42%). Pre- and post-SCS LP levels were significantly higher compared to healthy controls: pre-SCS, 30567 (12,996-58,821) vs. HC, 7952 (4932-12,583) pg/mL, p = 0.029; post-SCS, 18,890 (7140-44,719) vs. HC, 7952 (4932-12,583) pg/mL, p = 0.035. Pre- and post-SCS changes of GH (p = 0.18) and AN (p = 0.8) did not differ significantly. GH serum levels correlated with AN (Spearman r = 0.5; p = 0.012; 95 CI 0.11 to -0.76) and AN levels were significantly correlated with higher age (Pearson correlation r = 0.8; p = 0.002; 95 CI 0.41-0.94) at baseline.This study determined serum changes of metabolic-associated cytokines/adipokines in non-obese chronic back pain patients responsive to burst SCS suggesting that neuroinflammation assessment may consider pain-associated mood, cognition, sleep, and metabolic state.
T. Spinal Cord Stimulation in Patients With Complex Regional Pain Syndrome: A Possible Target for Immunomodulation?
A. Complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS) is characterized by continued pain disproportional to the inciting event, sensory abnormalities, vasomotor and sudomotor disturbances, and motor and trophic changes. Inflammatory involvement has been demonstrated in past CRPS studies resulting in pain, swelling, and warmth. Currently, it is unknown whether spinal cord stimulation (SCS) has immunomodulatory properties. The aim of this study was to determine whether SCS has immunomodulatory properties in CRPS patients.The primary outcome parameters are cytokines (IL-2, IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-10, IL-12, IL-13, IL-15, IL-17, TNF-α, IFN-γ), chemokines (IP-10 and Eotaxin), and growth factors (VEGF, PDGFbb, and basic FGF) from interstitial fluid of artificial skin blisters before (T0-baseline without SCS) and after SCS therapy (T1-40 Hz standard frequency stimulation and T2-preferred frequency stimulation). Secondary outcome parameters were baseline demographics, CRPS signs, symptoms, and phenotype (inflammatory, vasomotor, dystonia, or neuropathic). Results were analyzed by means of a MANOVA repeated measures design.After SCS, the expression of both pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines decreased over time in both the CRPS affected extremity and the contralateral extremity. The levels of IP-10, Eotaxin, VEGF, and PDGFbb were also significantly reduced bilaterally. There were no significant changes in IL-6 and TNF-α before and after SCS. The sensory signs, symptoms, and phenotype improved after SCS.SCS in CRPS patients attenuates T-cell activation, improves peripheral tissue oxygenation and decreases anti-angiogenetic activity which results in diminished endothelial dysfunction and improved bloodflow. The possible immunomodulatory effects of SCS opens new therapeutic possibilities in diseases with the involvement of the immune system and vasomotor disturbances, and requires further research on these mechanisms of action.
T. Elevated leukocyte count as a harbinger of systemic inflammation, disease progression, and poor prognosis: a review.
A. Total leukocyte count increases significantly in response to infection, trauma, inflammation, and certain diseases. Factors affecting leukocyte count in healthy adults include sex, hormonal milieu, genetic inheritance, stress level, diet, nutrition, and lifestyle (e.g. tobacco-induced inflammatory changes, chronic psychological stress, etc.). To date, numerous studies have reported that high but normal leukocyte counts at baseline predict increased cardiovascular and noncardiovascular mortality in older adults. Recent findings suggest that elevated leukocyte count within the normal range, but especially neutrophil and monocyte counts, may be a harbinger of increased systemic inflammation and subclinical disease. Moreover, elderly people who tend to have high but normal leukocyte counts are at greater risk of cancer, cardiovascular disease, type 2 diabetes, some other age-related conditions, and they also have increased all-cause mortality. These results indicate that strong and reliable inflammatory markers, such as leukocyte count, may reflect the rate of ageing and therefore can predict long-term survival in the elderly. Remarkably, leukocyte count correlates positively with genuine markers of systemic inflammation like C-reactive protein and interleukin 6. Interestingly, some authors conclude that leukocyte counts have a stronger prognostic ability with regard to total and cardiovascular mortality than total cholesterol or low-density lipoproteins. The fact that these inflammatory markers are clinically useful predictors of long-term survival in the elderly is quite remarkable as these blood parameters are included in routine medical check-ups. Therefore, they can be used as simple and reliable morphological indicators of chronic systemic inflammation, disease progression, and poor prognosis, especially among individuals who are likely to develop age-related conditions. Nevertheless, the pathomechanism that links elevated but normal leukocyte counts to increased mortality remains poorly understood. This review summarises the most important findings on the links between leukocyte count, chronic systemic inflammation, and health outcomes in older adults.
T. In-stent restenosis-prone coronary plaque composition: A retrospective virtual histology-intravascular ultrasound study.
A. The mechanism of in-stent restenosis (ISR) is multifactorial, which includes biological, mechanical and technical factors. This study hypothesized that increased inflammatory reaction, which is known to be an important atherosclerotic process, at a culprit lesion may lead to higher restenosis rates.The study population consisted of 241 patients who had undergone percutaneous coronary intervention with virtual histology-intravascular ultrasound (VH-IVUS) and a 9-month follow-up coronary angiography. Compared herein is the coronary plaque composition between patients with ISR and those without ISR.Patients with ISR (n = 27) were likely to be older (66.2 ± 9.5 years vs. 58.7 ± 11.7 years, p = 0.002) and have higher levels of high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP, 1.60 ± 3.59 mg/dL vs. 0.31 ± 0.76 mg/dL, p &lt; 0.001) than those without ISR (n = 214). VH-IVUS examination showed that percent necrotic core volume (14.3 ± 8.7% vs. 19.5 ± 9.1%, p = 0.005) was higher in those without ISR than those with ISR. Multivariate analysis revealed that hs-CRP (odds ratio [OR] 3.334, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.158-9.596, p = 0.026) and age (OR 3.557, 95% CI 1.242-10.192, p = 0.018) were associated with ISR.This study suggests that ISR is not associated with baseline coronary plaque composition but is associated with old age and increased expression of the inflammatory marker of hs-CRP.
T. Production and Use of Hymenolepis diminuta Cysticercoids as Anti-Inflammatory Therapeutics.
A. Helminthic therapy has shown considerable promise as a means of alleviating some inflammatory diseases that have proven resistant to pharmaceutical intervention. However, research in the field has been limited by a lack of availability to clinician scientists of a helminth that is relatively benign, non-communicable, affordable, and effectively treats disease. Previous socio-medical studies have found that some individuals self-treating with helminths to alleviate various diseases are using the rat tapeworm (cysticercoid developmental stage of Hymenolepis diminuta; HDC). In this study, we describe the production and use of HDCs in a manner that is based on reports from individuals self-treating with helminths, individuals producing helminths for self-treatment, and physicians monitoring patients that are self-treating. The helminth may fit the criteria needed by clinical scientists for clinical trials, and the methodology is apparently feasible for any medical center to reproduce. It is hoped that future clinical trials using this organism may shed light on the potential for helminthic therapy to alleviate inflammatory diseases. Further, it is hoped that studies with HDCs may provide a stepping stone toward population-wide restoration of the biota of the human body, potentially reversing the inflammatory consequences of biota depletion that currently affect Western society.