
T. Outcomes of an HIV cohort after a decade of comprehensive care at Newlands Clinic in Harare, Zimbabwe: TENART cohort.
A. Data on long-term outcomes of patients receiving antiretroviral therapy (ART) in sub-Saharan Africa are few. We describe outcomes of patients commenced on ART at Newlands Clinic between 2004 and 2006 after ≥10 years of comprehensive care including, psychosocial, adherence and food support.In this retrospective cohort study, patient data from an electronic medical record collected during routine care were analysed. We describe baseline characteristics, virological and clinical outcomes, attrition rates, and treatment adverse effects until November 2016. We defined virological suppression as viral load &lt;50 copies/ml and virological failure as &gt;1000 copies/ml after ≥6 months of ART.We analysed data for 605 patients (67% female) who commenced ART, and were followed-up for 5819 person-years (median: 10.7 years, IQR: 10.1-11.4). Median age at ART initiation was 34 years (IQR: 17-42). Pre-ART, 129 (21.3%) patients had history of pulmonary tuberculosis (PTB). In care, 66 (11%) developed PTB, and 24 (4%) developed extrapulmonary tuberculosis. 385 (63.6%) patients experienced ≥1 adverse event, the most frequent being stavudine-induced peripheral neuropathy (n = 252, 41.7%). At database closure on 14 November 2016, 474 (78.3%) patients were still in care, 428 (90.3%) being virologically suppressed, and 21 (4.4%) failing. While 483 (79.8%) remained on first line, 122 (20.2%) were switched to second line ART. Fifty-nine patients (9.8%) were transferred to other ART facilities, 45 (7.4%) were lost to follow-up, 25 (4.1%) died, and two stopped ART.Comprehensive HIV care can result in low mortality, high retention in care and virologic suppression rates in resource limited settings.
T. CLEC9A modulates macrophage-mediated neutrophil recruitment in response to heat-killed Mycobacterium tuberculosis H37Ra.
A. Tuberculosis is a fatal human infectious disease caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis (M. tuberculosis) that is prevalent worldwide. Mycobacteria differ from other bacteria in that they have a cell wall composed of specific surface glycans that are the major determinant of these organisms' pathogenicity. The interaction of M. tuberculosis with pattern recognition receptors (PRRs), in particular C-type lectin receptors (CLRs), on the surface of macrophages plays a central role in initiating innate and adaptive immunity, but the picture as a whole remains a puzzle. Defining novel mechanisms by which host receptors interact with pathogens in order to modulate a specific immune response is an area of intense research. In this study, based on an in vitro lectin binding assay, CLEC9A (DNGR-1) is identified as a novel CLR that binds with mycobacteria. Our results with CLEC9A-knocked down cells and a CLEC9A-Fc fusion protein as blocking agents show that CLEC9A is involved in the activation of SYK and MAPK signaling in response to heat-killed M. tuberculosis H37Ra treatment, and it then promotes the production of CXCL8 and IL-1β in macrophages. The CXCL8 and IL-1β secreted by the activated macrophages are critical to neutrophil recruitment and activation. In a in vivo mouse model, when the interaction between CLEC9A and H37Ra is interfered with by treatment with CLEC9A-Fc fusion protein, this reduces lung inflammation and cell infiltration. These findings demonstrate that CLEC9A is a specialized receptor that modulates the innate immune response when there is a mycobacterial infection.
T. Trends in Tuberculosis Case Notification and Treatment Success, Haiti, 2010-2015.
A. Since the 2010 earthquake, tuberculosis (TB) control has been a major priority for health sector response and recovery efforts in Haiti. The goal of this study was to analyze trends in TB case notification in Haiti from the aggregate data reported by the National TB Control Program to understand the effects of such efforts. A total of 95,745 TB patients were registered for treatment in Haiti between 2010 and 2015. Three regions, the West, Artibonite, and North departments accounted for 68% of the TB cases notified during the period. Patients in the 15-34 age groups represented 53% (50,560) of all cases. Case notification rates of all forms of TB increased from 142.7/100,000 in 2010 to 153.4 in 2015, peaking at 163.4 cases/100,000 in 2013. Case notification for smear-positive pulmonary TB increased from 85.5 cases/100,000 to 105.7 cases/100,000, whereas treatment success rates remained stable at 79-80% during the period. Active TB case finding efforts in high-risk communities and the introduction of new diagnostics have contributed to increasing TB case notification trends in Haiti from 2010 to 2015. Targeted interventions and novel strategies are being implemented to reach high-risk populations and underserved communities.
T. Incidence and clinical profile of tuberculosis after allogeneic stem cell transplantation.
A. Patients post allogeneic stem cell transplantation (alloSCT) are expected to be at high risk of tuberculosis (TB) owing to underlying immunosuppression. We conducted a retrospective study in patients post alloSCT for clinical features and factors associated with TB.Records of all patients transplanted from January 1, 2012 until December 31, 2015 were reviewed. Diagnosis of TB was considered if Mycobacterium tuberculosis was cultured from clinical samples or acid-fast bacilli (AFB) demonstrated on histopathology/smears. A presumptive TB diagnosis was considered in the presence of signs and symptoms suggestive of TB with epithelioid cell granulomas, without AFB.In 175 eligible patients, TB was detected in 5 patients (pulmonary = 4, lymph node = 1), with incidence of 2.84% at median of 258 (157-639) days after transplantation. Cumulative incidence rate of TB among the patients undergoing alloSCT was calculated to be 1.9/100 person-years. Median duration of symptoms was 20 days till diagnosis was confirmed. All patients were started on four-drug anti-tubercular therapy (ATT) with clinical/radiological response in all. Two patients developed hepatotoxicity (transaminitis, n = 1; hyperbilirubinemia, n = 1) following ATT. Presence of chronic graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) (P = .008) and steroid-refractory GVHD (P = .001) was found to be significantly associated with TB.TB should be suspected in patients with unexplained fever post alloSCT. Active GVHD and ongoing immunosuppression/steroids are possible risk factors. Early diagnosis and treatment can salvage most patients. Hepatotoxicity following ATT is a potential concern. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.
T. Using the theory of planned behavior framework for designing interventions related to organ donation.
A.  
T. Hantavirus and tuberculosis co-infection in an Indian child.
A. Hantaviruses are a group of antigenically distinct viruses carried out in rodents and insectivores. Humans are accidental hosts and get infected by aerosols generated from contaminated urine, faeces and saliva of infected rodents. Hantaviruses are identified as aetiological agents of two human diseases, haemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome and hantavirus pulmonary syndrome. Hantavirus causing pulmonary renal disease has rarely been reported in children in India. Hantavirus infection is uncommon under the age of 12 years. We report a 9-year-old girl from Mumbai, India with fever, bilateral pleural effusion, thrombocytopaenia, haemoconcentration and oliguria due to hantavirus infection. She also had associated tuberculosis.
T. Critical physicochemical and biological attributes of nanoemulsions for pulmonary delivery of rifampicin by nebulization technique in tuberculosis treatment.
A. The study investigated aerosolization, pulmonary inhalation, intracellular trafficking potential in macrophages and pharmacokinetics profiles of rifampicin-oleic acid first-generation nanoemulsion and its respective chitosan- and chitosan-folate conjugate-decorated second and third-generation nanoemulsions, delivered via nebulization technique. The nanoemulsions were prepared by conjugate synthesis and spontaneous emulsification techniques. They were subjected to physicochemical, drug release, aerosolization, inhalation, cell culture and pharmacokinetics analysis. The nanoemulsions had average droplet sizes of 40-60 nm, with narrow polydispersity indices. They exhibited desirable pH, surface tension, viscosity, refractive index, density and viscosity attributes for pulmonary rifampicin administration. All nanoemulsions demonstrated more than 95% aerosol output and inhalation efficiency greater than 75%. The aerosol output, aerosolized and inhaled fine particle fractions were primarily governed by the size and surface tension of nanoemulsions in an inverse relationship. The nanoemulsions were found to be safe with third-generation nanoemulsion exhibiting higher cell internalization potential, reduced plasma drug concentration, and higher lung drug content.
T. Design, synthesis of 9H-fluorenone based 1,2,3-triazole analogues as Mycobacterium tuberculosis InhA inhibitors.
A. We prepared fifty various 9H-fluorenone based 1,2,3-triazole analogues varied with NH, -S- and -SO2- groups using click chemistry. The target compounds were characterized by routine analytical techniques, (1) H, (13) CNMR, Mass, Elemental, single crystal XRD (8a) and screened for in vitro antitubercular activity against Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB) H37Rv strain and two 'wild' strains Spec. 210 and Spec. 192 and MIC50 was determined. Further, the compounds were evaluated for MTB InhA inhibition study as well. The final analogues exhibited minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) ranging from 52.35 - &gt; 295 μM. Among the -NH- analogues one compound 5p (MIC 58.34 μM), amongst -S- containing analogues four compounds 8e (MIC 66.94 μM), 8f (MIC 74.20 μM), 8g (MIC 57.55 μM) &amp; 8q (MIC 56.11 μM), among -SO2 - containing compounds one compound 10p (MIC 52.35 μM) showed less than MTB MIC 74.20 μM: Compound 4-(((9H-fluoren-9-yl)sulfonyl)methyl)-1-(3,4,5-trimethoxyphenyl)-1H-1,2,3-triazole (10p), was found to be the most active compound with 73% InhA inhibition at 50 μM; it inhibited MTB with MIC 52.35 μM. Further, 10f &amp; 10p were docked to crystal structure of InhA to know binding interaction pattern. Most active compounds were found to be non cytotoxic against HEK 293 cell lines at 50 μM. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.
T. Stroke screening and health-related physical fitness testing in medical staff members in Urumqi, China.
A. Stroke is the leading cause of death and disability, and is closely related to a lack of exercise. Currently, most Chinese medical staff members lack exercise and may be at risk for stroke. We sought to determine the risk factors for stroke and study the significance of health-related physical fitness testing in stroke prevention among Chinese medical staff members.A total of 627 subjects from Urumqi, Xinjiang, China, were included in the study and a survey was conducted from 1st January 2016 to 1st February 2016. Stroke screening and health-related physical fitness testing were completed according to the standard protocol, and the related data were analyzed.Based on the screening, 27.6% (n = 173) of the subjects were at high risk for stroke. The top risk factors for stroke in these subjects were dyslipidemia, lack of exercise or mild physical activity, being overweight or obese, and high blood pressure. Body weight, body mass index, body fat, visceral fat area, body fat percentage, and basal metabolic rate were significantly higher (P &lt; 0.01) in subjects at high risk for stroke than in subjects who were not at high risk. Lung capacity, step index, grip test, vertical jump, and sit-up/push-up index were significantly lower (P &lt; 0.01) in subjects at high risk for stroke than in subjects who were not at high risk.A large proportion of China's on-the-job medical personnel is at high risk for stroke. This may be related to the nature of the profession and warrants more attention from the society. The health-related physical fitness measurement parameters in subjects at high risk for stroke were significantly different from those in subjects who were not at high risk. Screening and health-related physical fitness testing in medical staff members may contribute to stroke prevention. More rigorous controlled clinical trials will be needed in the future.
T. A Complicated Case of Group B Streptococcus Empyema Necessitans.
A. Empyema necessitans is a complication of a pleural space infection that dissects through the pleura into the soft tissues of the chest and skin. Due to the widespread availability of antibiotics, empyema necessitans is rare in modern medicine and is most commonly caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis. A 38-year-old immunocompetent male presented with left shoulder pain and his chest radiograph revealed a mass in the upper left lung and/or pleural space. He underwent multiple debridements of the chest wall due to a left chest wall abscess and empyema necessitans. All operative samples were positive for Streptococcus agalactiae (Group B Streptococcus). The patient's clinical course was complicated by septic arthritis of the left sternoclavicular joint and first rib, vertebral osteomyelitis/discitis, and pelvic abscesses. This case report illustrates the pathogenic process of empyema necessitans and summarizes the clinical management for practicing clinicians. It also documents the second case of Streptococcus agalactiae-associated empyema necessitans, to our knowledge, with significantly greater disease extension than the first.
T. Ocular tuberculosis in Hospital Universiti Sains Malaysia - A case series.
A. Ocular tuberculosis (TB) encompasses a broad spectrum of clinical manifestations affecting different structures of the eye. It is caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis, a great ancient organism that induces various types of diseases and unfavorable outcomes if unrecognized and not well treated.To report the clinical profile of 34 ocular TB cases observed during 6 years period in Hospital Universiti Sains Malaysia (HUSM).A retrospective review of medical records from 34 patients diagnosed with ocular TB in HUSM from January 2011 until December 2016.The mean age was 43 ± 14.6 years old. Both male and female affected in about 1:1 ratio. The majority of subjects were local Malays (91.2%). Risk factors included previous contact with pulmonary TB patients (38.2%), and patients with underlying diabetes mellitus (26.5%). Most patients showed normal chest radiography (79.4%). However they had positive Mantoux test (94.1%) and raised erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) value (58.8%). Uveitis was the most common ocular manifestation of ocular TB (70.6%) while the rare ocular manifestations included optic perineuritis and optic neuritis, orbital apex syndrome, orbital cellulitis, sclerokeratitis, corneal ulcer and conjunctival abscess. All patients responded well to anti-TB treatment, but visual outcome was variable.This review shows the diverse entity of ocular TB spectrum in an endemic area. Good clinical response to anti-tuberculous therapy supported the presumed diagnosis of ocular TB in majority of the cases.
T. Asymptomatic Giant Lipoma of the Right Ventricular Outflow Tract: A Case Report.
A. Cardiac lipomas are extremely rare tumors of the heart. They are usually symptomatic and rarely may be found incidentally in autopsies. Here we describe a 23-year-old healthy man, in whose physical examination for employment a murmur was found incidentally. Transthoracic and then transesophageal echocardiographic examination showed a 4-cm oval-shaped mass in the right ventricular outflow tract. He underwent elective surgery, during which the tumor was removed under cardiopulmonary bypass and aortic-cross clamping via right atriotomy. The postoperative course was uneventful, and the patient was in good condition at 1 year's follow-up.
T. Effect of smoking on acute phase reactants, stress hormone responses and vitamin C in pulmonary tuberculosis.
A. Chronic inflammation, possibly exacerbated by cigarette smoking, is considered to be the primary cause of pulmonary damage in patients with tuberculosis (TB). However, the mechanisms which underpin these harmful inflammatory responses, have not been well documented.The current study was undertaken to determine possible associations between systemic biomarkers of inflammation (acute phase reactants, stress hormones, leukocyte vitamin C) and smoking status in patients (n=71, 20 smokers) with newly-diagnosed pulmonary TB presenting at a tertiary hospital, Johannesburg, South Africa.Plasma concentrations of C-reactive protein (CRP), ferritin, cortisol, epinephrine, norepinephrine, dopamine and leukocyte vitamin C were measured using a combination of immunonephelometric, radioimmunoassay, immunochromatographic and spectrophotometric procedures. Demographic, clinical and laboratory data was captured and analysed by parametric and non-parametric analyses where appropriate.Smokers were predominantly males (P&lt;0.0001), of older age (P&lt;0.0003) with a significantly lower body mass index (P&lt;0.03). Plasma levels of CRP, ferritin and dopamine were higher in the group of smokers in the setting of lower levels of epinephrine, and leukocyte vitamin C, with CRP and vitamin C attaining statistical significance (P&lt;0.04 and P&lt;0.02 respectively). Those of cortisol and norepinephrine were comparable to those of non-smokers, as were radiographic changes and clinical indices of disease activity.Cigarette smoking is associated with an exaggerated systemic inflammatory response in pulmonary TB in the setting of decreased concentrations of leukocyte vitamin C. Although no significant associations with radiographic changes and most clinical indices of disease activity were evident on presentation, these pro-inflammatory interactions may have prognostic significance.
T. Oxycodone Resistance Due to Rifampin Use in an Osteosarcoma Patient with Tuberculosis.
A. BACKGROUND Oxycodone is a semisynthetic opioid receptor agonist, and is frequently used for pain control in patients with cancer. Most oxycodone is metabolized by N-demethylation to noroxycodone by CYP3A. Rifampin is a strong inducer of several drug-metabolizing enzymes, including CYP3A. Hence, rifampin-induced CYP3A activity may decrease the effect of oxycodone. CASE REPORT Osteosarcoma is a highly aggressive primary bone tumor of childhood and adolescence. Here, we report a 30-year-old male with osteosarcoma of the femur with lung metastases in the upper lobe. The lung also contained small, scattered nodular lesions that were identified as tuberculosis. Multi-drug therapy, including rifampin, was administered. The upper-lobe metastatic lesion extended to the brachial plexus and caused severe pain. Over 1000 mg per day of oxycodone was ineffective for pain control. However, morphine was able to control his pain at about one-third the equivalent dose. CONCLUSIONS Our patient demonstrated oxycodone resistance due to rifampin. Chemotherapy may have compromised the patient's immune system, thus theoretically increasing the risk of tuberculosis. Recognition of the interactions between rifampin and oxycodone is important in this and other cancers. Notably, for patients using high doses of oxycodone to manage severe pain, stopping rifampin may lead to oxycodone overdose.
T. Classification of voluntary coughs applied to the screening of respiratory disease.
A. Pulmonary and respiratory diseases (e.g. asthma, COPD, allergies, pneumonia, tuberculosis, etc.) represent a large proportion of the global disease burden, mortality, and disability. In this context of creating automated diagnostic tools, we explore how the analysis of voluntary cough sounds may be used to screen for pulmonary disease. As a clinical study, voluntary coughs were recorded using a custom mobile phone stethoscope from 54 patients, of which 7 had COPD, 15 had asthma, 11 had allergic rhinitis, 17 had both asthma and allergic rhinitis, and four had both COPD and allergic rhinitis. Data were also collected from 33 healthy subjects. These patients also received full auscultation at 11 sites, given a clinical questionnaire, and underwent full pulmonary function testing (spirometer, body plethysmograph, DLCO) which culminated in a diagnosis provided by an experienced pulmonologist. From machine learning analysis of these data, we show that it is possible to achieve good classification of cough sounds in terms of Wet vs Dry, yielding an ROC curve with AUC of 0.94, and show that voluntary coughs can serve as an effective test for determining Healthy vs Unhealthy (sensitivity=35.7% specificity=100%). We also show that the use of cough sounds can enhance the performance of other diagnostic tools such as a patient questionnaire and peak flow meter; however voluntary coughs alone provide relatively little value in determining specific disease diagnosis.
T. Genome-wide interaction study of smoking behavior and non-small cell lung cancer risk in Caucasian population.
A. Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is the most common type of lung cancer. Both environmental and genetic risk factors contribute to lung carcinogenesis. We conducted a genome-wide interaction analysis between SNPs and smoking status (never vs ever smokers) in a European-descent population. We adopted a two-step analysis strategy in the discovery stage: we first conducted a case-only interaction analysis to assess the relationship between SNPs and smoking behavior using 13,336 NSCLC cases. Candidate SNPs with p-value less than 0.001 were further analyzed using a standard case-control interaction analysis including 13970 controls. The significant SNPs with p-value less than 3.5x10-5 (correcting for multiple tests) from the case-control analysis in the discovery stage were further validated using an independent replication dataset comprising 5377 controls and 3054 NSCLC cases. We further stratified the analysis by histological subtypes. Two novel SNPs, rs6441286 and rs17723637, were identified for overall lung cancer risk. The interaction odds ratio and meta-analysis p-value for these two SNPs were 1.24 with 6.96x10-7 and 1.37 with 3.49x10-7, respectively. Additionally, interaction of smoking with rs4751674 was identified in squamous cell lung carcinoma with an odds ratio of 0.58 and p-value of 8.12x10-7. This study is by far the largest genome-wide SNP-smoking interaction analysis reported for lung cancer. The three identified novel SNPs provide potential candidate biomarkers for lung cancer risk screening and intervention. The results from our study reinforce that gene-smoking interactions play important roles in the etiology of lung cancer and account for part of the missing heritability of this disease.
T. Effect of glycemic control and type of diabetes treatment on unsuccessful TB treatment outcomes among people with TB-Diabetes: A systematic review.
A. Stringent glycemic control by using insulin as a replacement or in addition to oral hypoglycemic agents (OHAs) has been recommended for people with tuberculosis and diabetes mellitus (TB-DM). This systematic review (PROSPERO 2016:CRD42016039101) analyses whether this improves TB treatment outcomes.Among people with drug-susceptible TB and DM on anti-TB treatment, to determine the effect of i) glycemic control (stringent or less stringent) compared to poor glycemic control and ii) insulin (only or with OHAs) compared to 'OHAs only' on unsuccessful TB treatment outcome(s). We looked for unfavourable TB treatment outcomes at the end of intensive phase and/or end of TB treatment (minimum six months and maximum 12 months follow up). Secondary outcomes were development of MDR-TB during the course of treatment, recurrence after 6 months and/or after 1 year post successful treatment completion and development of adverse events related to glucose lowering treatment (including hypoglycemic episodes).All interventional studies (with comparison arm) and cohort studies on people with TB-DM on anti-TB treatment reporting glycemic control, DM treatment details and TB treatment outcomes were eligible. We searched electronic databases (EMBASE, PubMed, Google Scholar) and grey literature between 1996 and April 2017. Screening, data extraction and risk of bias assessment were done independently by two investigators and recourse to a third investigator, for resolution of differences.After removal of duplicates from 2326 identified articles, 2054 underwent title and abstract screening. Following full text screening of 56 articles, nine cohort studies were included. Considering high methodological and clinical heterogeneity, we decided to report the results qualitatively and not perform a meta-analysis. Eight studies dealt with glycemic control, of which only two were free of the risk of bias (with confounder-adjusted measures of effect). An Indian study reported 30% fewer unsuccessful treatment outcomes (aOR (0.95 CI): 0.72 (0.64-0.81)) and 2.8 times higher odds of 'no recurrence' (aOR (0.95 CI): 2.83 (2.60-2.92)) among patients with optimal glycemic control at baseline. A Peruvian study reported faster culture conversion among those with glycemic control (aHR (0.95 CI): 2.2 (1.1,4)). Two poor quality studies reported the effect of insulin on TB treatment outcomes.We identified few studies that were free of the risk of bias. There were limited data and inconsistent findings among available studies. We recommend robustly designed and analyzed studies including randomized controlled trials on the effect of glucose lowering treatment options on TB treatment outcomes.
T. Nocardia beijingensis pericarditis presenting with cardiac tamponade: A case report.
A. We report the first case of Nocardia beijingensis pericarditis in a 32-year-old HIV-infected patient. He presented with cardiac tamponade after failing to respond to treatment for smear-negative pulmonary and pericardial tuberculosis (TB). The pericardial fluid was examined several times before it eventually revealed filamentous branching organisms in Gram and modified acid-fast bacilli stain. The culture grew Nocardia spp. and was identified by 16s rRNA sequencing as N. beijingensis. Eight previously reported cases of Nocardia pericarditis in HIV-infected patients were caused by Nocardia asteroides. All patients had low CD4 cell count (range: 17-239 cells/mm(3)) and 50% of patients were treated for tuberculous pericarditis prior to making the correct diagnosis of Nocardia pericarditis. This report revisits the issue of nocardiosis as a great TB mimicker. It should always be considered in the differential diagnosis among HIV-infected patients suspected of having pericardial TB that is failing treatment.
T. Mycobacterium tuberculosis of the Beijing Genotype in Iran and the WHO Eastern Mediterranean Region: A Meta-Analysis.
A. The Beijing genotype is a distinct genetic lineage of Mycobacterium tuberculosis, which is distributed worldwide, and may cause large outbreaks of multidrug resistance-tuberculosis (MDR-TB). The distribution of such strains in the Eastern Mediterranean region (EMR) is unclear, and clarifying the data is our purpose apart from the presence of Beijing TB in Iran.We searched Published literature from CINAHL Cochrane Library, Current Contents, Database of Abstracts of Reviews of Effects (DARE), ProQuest Google Scholar PubMed, PsycINFO, Thomson Reuters, (SID), and Medical Library (MedLib) to detect relevant studies from the year 2000 to July 2015 with the following keywords: M. tuberculosis, Beijing genotype, EMR, and drug resistance. Random-effect models were used to estimate the proportion of Beijing strains in STATA 14. Heterogeneity was investigated by subgroup analysis and meta-regression.The meta-prevalence of Beijing strains was 4% (CI 95% = 3-5). The prevalence was different based on types of detection techniques (spoligotyping = 4% vs. other techniques = 6%; p = 0.003) and years of study (before the year 2000 = 2% vs. after year 2000 = 4%, p = 0.004). The Beijing family was most prevalent in Iran and Pakistan. A strong relationship with drug resistance was reported in Pakistan and Iran, and an increasing trend was seen in Pakistan. Additional studies of drug-resistant TB distribution among Beijing strains in EMR countries are needed as well as a time-trend analysis of the Beijing strain infection in the region.
T. Current immunogenetic predisposition to tuberculosis in the Moroccan population.
A. Tuberculosis (TB) is a serious infectious disease that kills approximately two million people per year, particularly in low- and middle-income countries. Numerous genetic epidemiology studies have been conducted of many ethnic groups worldwide and have highlighted the critical impact of the genetic environment on TB distribution. Many candidate genes associated with resistance or susceptibility to TB have been identified. In Morocco, where TB is still a major public health problem, various observations of clinical, microbiological and incidence distribution are heavily affected by genetic background and external environment. Morocco has almost the same clinical profile as do other North African countries, mainly the increase in more extrapulmonary than pulmonary forms of the diseases, when compared to European, Asian or American populations. In addition, a linkage analysis study that examined Moroccan TB patients identified a unique chromosome region that had a strong association with the risk of contracting TB. Other genes in the Moroccan population that were found to be associated seem to be involved predominantly in modulating the innate immunity. In this review, we appraise the major candidate genes that have been reported in Moroccan immunogenetic studies and discuss their updated role in TB, particularly during the first phase of the immune response to Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) infection.